conductor/templates/UAT.md, before:

# UAT Template

Template for `.planning/phases/XX-name/{phase}-UAT.md` — persistent UAT session tracking.

---

## File Template

```markdown
---
status: testing | complete | diagnosed
phase: XX-name
source: [list of SUMMARY.md files tested]
started: [ISO timestamp]
updated: [ISO timestamp]
---

## Current Test
<!-- OVERWRITE each test - shows where we are -->

number: [N]
name: [test name]
expected: |
  [what user should observe]
awaiting: user response

## Tests

### 1. [Test Name]
expected: [observable behavior - what user should see]
result: [pending]

### 2. [Test Name]
expected: [observable behavior]
result: pass

### 3. [Test Name]
expected: [observable behavior]
result: issue
reported: "[verbatim user response]"
severity: major
root_cause: [filled by diagnose-issues, empty until diagnosed]
debug_session: [path to DEBUG file, empty until diagnosed]

### 4. [Test Name]
expected: [observable behavior]
result: skipped
reason: [why skipped]

...

## Summary

total: [N]
passed: [N]
issues: [N]
pending: [N]
skipped: [N]

## Issues for /conductor:plan-fix

- UAT-001: [brief summary] (blocker) - Test 3
  root_cause: [empty until diagnosed]

- UAT-002: [brief summary] (major) - Test 7
  root_cause: [empty until diagnosed]
```

---

<section_rules>

**Frontmatter:**
- `status`: OVERWRITE - "testing" or "complete"
- `phase`: IMMUTABLE - set on creation
- `source`: IMMUTABLE - SUMMARY files being tested
- `started`: IMMUTABLE - set on creation
- `updated`: OVERWRITE - update on every change

**Current Test:**
- OVERWRITE entirely on each test transition
- Shows which test is active and what's awaited
- On completion: "[testing complete]"

**Tests:**
- Each test: OVERWRITE result field when user responds
- `result` values: [pending], pass, issue, skipped
- If issue: add `reported` (verbatim) and `severity` (inferred)
- If skipped: add `reason` if provided
- After diagnosis: add `root_cause` and `debug_session` fields to issues

**Summary:**
- OVERWRITE counts after each response
- Tracks: total, passed, issues, pending, skipped

**Issues for /conductor:plan-fix:**
- APPEND only when issue found
- Format: `- UAT-{NNN}: {summary} ({severity}) - Test {N}`
- After diagnosis: add `root_cause:` line under each issue
- This section feeds directly into /conductor:plan-fix

</section_rules>

<diagnosis_lifecycle>

**After testing complete (status: complete), if issues exist:**

1. User runs diagnosis (from verify-work offer or manually)
2. diagnose-issues workflow spawns parallel debug agents
3. Each agent investigates one issue, returns root cause
4. UAT.md updated with root causes:
   - Each issue test gets `root_cause:` and `debug_session:` fields
   - Issues section gets `root_cause:` under each issue
5. status → "diagnosed"
6. Ready for /conductor:plan-fix with root causes

**After diagnosis:**
```markdown
### 2. Create Top-Level Comment
expected: Submit comment via rich text editor, appears in list with author info
result: issue
reported: "works but doesn't show until I refresh the page"
severity: major
root_cause: useEffect in CommentList.tsx missing commentCount dependency
debug_session: .planning/debug/comment-not-refreshing.md
```

```markdown
## Issues for /conductor:plan-fix

- UAT-001: Comment doesn't appear until refresh (major) - Test 2
  root_cause: useEffect in CommentList.tsx missing commentCount dependency
```

</diagnosis_lifecycle>

<lifecycle>

**Creation:** When /conductor:verify-work starts new session
- Extract tests from SUMMARY.md files
- Set status to "testing"
- Current Test points to test 1
- All tests have result: [pending]

**During testing:**
- Present test from Current Test section
- User responds with pass confirmation or issue description
- Update test result (pass/issue/skipped)
- Update Summary counts
- If issue: append to Issues section, infer severity
- Move Current Test to next pending test

**On completion:**
- status → "complete"
- Current Test → "[testing complete]"
- Commit file
- Present summary with next steps

**Resume after /clear:**
1. Read frontmatter → know phase and status
2. Read Current Test → know where we are
3. Find first [pending] result → continue from there
4. Summary shows progress so far

</lifecycle>

<severity_guide>

Severity is INFERRED from user's natural language, never asked.

| User describes | Infer |
|----------------|-------|
| Crash, error, exception, fails completely, unusable | blocker |
| Doesn't work, nothing happens, wrong behavior, missing | major |
| Works but..., slow, weird, minor, small issue | minor |
| Color, font, spacing, alignment, visual, looks off | cosmetic |

Default: **major** (safe default, user can clarify if wrong)

</severity_guide>

<good_example>
```markdown
---
status: testing
phase: 04-comments
source: 04-01-SUMMARY.md, 04-02-SUMMARY.md
started: 2025-01-15T10:30:00Z
updated: 2025-01-15T10:45:00Z
---

## Current Test

number: 4
name: Visual Nesting
expected: |
  Create 3+ level deep thread.
  Each level shows increased indentation with left border.
  Nesting caps at reasonable depth.
awaiting: user response

## Tests

### 1. View Comments on Post
expected: Comments section expands, shows count and comment list
result: pass

### 2. Create Top-Level Comment
expected: Submit comment via rich text editor, appears in list with author info
result: issue
reported: "works but doesn't show until I refresh the page"
severity: major
root_cause: useEffect in CommentList.tsx missing commentCount dependency
debug_session: .planning/debug/comment-not-refreshing.md

### 3. Reply to a Comment
expected: Click Reply, inline composer appears, submit shows nested reply
result: pass

### 4. Visual Nesting
expected: 3+ level thread shows indentation, left borders, caps at reasonable depth
result: [pending]

### 5. Delete Own Comment
expected: Click delete on own comment, removed or shows [deleted] if has replies
result: [pending]

### 6. Comment Count
expected: Post shows accurate count, increments when adding comment
result: [pending]

## Summary

total: 6
passed: 2
issues: 1
pending: 3
skipped: 0

## Issues for /conductor:plan-fix

- UAT-001: Comment doesn't appear until refresh (major) - Test 2
  root_cause: useEffect in CommentList.tsx missing commentCount dependency
```
</good_example>

Commit message:

refactor: rename command prefix from conductor: to dev:
- Rename commands/conductor/ → commands/dev/
- Update all command frontmatter: name: dev:*
- Update all documentation references

conductor/templates/UAT.md, after:

# UAT Template

Template for `.planning/phases/XX-name/{phase}-UAT.md` — persistent UAT session tracking.

---

## File Template

```markdown
---
status: testing | complete | diagnosed
phase: XX-name
source: [list of SUMMARY.md files tested]
started: [ISO timestamp]
updated: [ISO timestamp]
---

## Current Test
<!-- OVERWRITE each test - shows where we are -->

number: [N]
name: [test name]
expected: |
  [what user should observe]
awaiting: user response

## Tests

### 1. [Test Name]
expected: [observable behavior - what user should see]
result: [pending]

### 2. [Test Name]
expected: [observable behavior]
result: pass

### 3. [Test Name]
expected: [observable behavior]
result: issue
reported: "[verbatim user response]"
severity: major
root_cause: [filled by diagnose-issues, empty until diagnosed]
debug_session: [path to DEBUG file, empty until diagnosed]

### 4. [Test Name]
expected: [observable behavior]
result: skipped
reason: [why skipped]

...

## Summary

total: [N]
passed: [N]
issues: [N]
pending: [N]
skipped: [N]

## Issues for /dev:plan-fix

- UAT-001: [brief summary] (blocker) - Test 3
  root_cause: [empty until diagnosed]

- UAT-002: [brief summary] (major) - Test 7
  root_cause: [empty until diagnosed]
```

---

<section_rules>

**Frontmatter:**
- `status`: OVERWRITE - "testing" or "complete"
- `phase`: IMMUTABLE - set on creation
- `source`: IMMUTABLE - SUMMARY files being tested
- `started`: IMMUTABLE - set on creation
- `updated`: OVERWRITE - update on every change

**Current Test:**
- OVERWRITE entirely on each test transition
- Shows which test is active and what's awaited
- On completion: "[testing complete]"

**Tests:**
- Each test: OVERWRITE result field when user responds
- `result` values: [pending], pass, issue, skipped
- If issue: add `reported` (verbatim) and `severity` (inferred)
- If skipped: add `reason` if provided
- After diagnosis: add `root_cause` and `debug_session` fields to issues

**Summary:**
- OVERWRITE counts after each response
- Tracks: total, passed, issues, pending, skipped

**Issues for /dev:plan-fix:**
- APPEND only when issue found
- Format: `- UAT-{NNN}: {summary} ({severity}) - Test {N}`
- After diagnosis: add `root_cause:` line under each issue
- This section feeds directly into /dev:plan-fix

</section_rules>

<diagnosis_lifecycle>

**After testing complete (status: complete), if issues exist:**

1. User runs diagnosis (from verify-work offer or manually)
2. diagnose-issues workflow spawns parallel debug agents
3. Each agent investigates one issue, returns root cause
4. UAT.md updated with root causes:
   - Each issue test gets `root_cause:` and `debug_session:` fields
   - Issues section gets `root_cause:` under each issue
5. status → "diagnosed"
6. Ready for /dev:plan-fix with root causes

**After diagnosis:**
```markdown
### 2. Create Top-Level Comment
expected: Submit comment via rich text editor, appears in list with author info
result: issue
reported: "works but doesn't show until I refresh the page"
severity: major
root_cause: useEffect in CommentList.tsx missing commentCount dependency
debug_session: .planning/debug/comment-not-refreshing.md
```

```markdown
## Issues for /dev:plan-fix

- UAT-001: Comment doesn't appear until refresh (major) - Test 2
  root_cause: useEffect in CommentList.tsx missing commentCount dependency
```

</diagnosis_lifecycle>

<lifecycle>

**Creation:** When /dev:verify-work starts new session
- Extract tests from SUMMARY.md files
- Set status to "testing"
- Current Test points to test 1
- All tests have result: [pending]

**During testing:**
- Present test from Current Test section
- User responds with pass confirmation or issue description
- Update test result (pass/issue/skipped)
- Update Summary counts
- If issue: append to Issues section, infer severity
- Move Current Test to next pending test

**On completion:**
- status → "complete"
- Current Test → "[testing complete]"
- Commit file
- Present summary with next steps

**Resume after /clear:**
1. Read frontmatter → know phase and status
2. Read Current Test → know where we are
3. Find first [pending] result → continue from there
4. Summary shows progress so far

</lifecycle>

<severity_guide>

Severity is INFERRED from user's natural language, never asked.

| User describes | Infer |
|----------------|-------|
| Crash, error, exception, fails completely, unusable | blocker |
| Doesn't work, nothing happens, wrong behavior, missing | major |
| Works but..., slow, weird, minor, small issue | minor |
| Color, font, spacing, alignment, visual, looks off | cosmetic |

Default: **major** (safe default, user can clarify if wrong)

</severity_guide>

<good_example>
```markdown
---
status: testing
phase: 04-comments
source: 04-01-SUMMARY.md, 04-02-SUMMARY.md
started: 2025-01-15T10:30:00Z
updated: 2025-01-15T10:45:00Z
---

## Current Test

number: 4
name: Visual Nesting
expected: |
  Create 3+ level deep thread.
  Each level shows increased indentation with left border.
  Nesting caps at reasonable depth.
awaiting: user response

## Tests

### 1. View Comments on Post
expected: Comments section expands, shows count and comment list
result: pass

### 2. Create Top-Level Comment
expected: Submit comment via rich text editor, appears in list with author info
result: issue
reported: "works but doesn't show until I refresh the page"
severity: major
root_cause: useEffect in CommentList.tsx missing commentCount dependency
debug_session: .planning/debug/comment-not-refreshing.md

### 3. Reply to a Comment
expected: Click Reply, inline composer appears, submit shows nested reply
result: pass

### 4. Visual Nesting
expected: 3+ level thread shows indentation, left borders, caps at reasonable depth
result: [pending]

### 5. Delete Own Comment
expected: Click delete on own comment, removed or shows [deleted] if has replies
result: [pending]

### 6. Comment Count
expected: Post shows accurate count, increments when adding comment
result: [pending]

## Summary

total: 6
passed: 2
issues: 1
pending: 3
skipped: 0

## Issues for /dev:plan-fix

- UAT-001: Comment doesn't appear until refresh (major) - Test 2
  root_cause: useEffect in CommentList.tsx missing commentCount dependency
```
</good_example>
